docs/features/editing.md, before:

# Editing

::: tip Platform Note
Some keybindings may not work or may differ on your system due to differences in keyboard layouts, terminal emulators, and operating systems. Terminals capture and report key events differently, and some key combinations may be intercepted by your OS or terminal before reaching Fresh. If a keybinding doesn't work, check the command palette (`Ctrl+P`) for alternative bindings, use the [keyboard configuration](../configuration/keyboard.md) to customize bindings, or browse all available shortcuts in the [Keybinding Editor](./keybinding-editor.md).
:::

## Multiple Cursors

Edit multiple locations simultaneously:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+D` | Add cursor at next occurrence of selection |
| `Ctrl+Alt+↑` | Add cursor above |
| `Ctrl+Alt+↓` | Add cursor below |
| `Esc` | Remove secondary cursors |

## Selection

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+W` | Select word under cursor |
| `Ctrl+L` | Select current line |
| `Ctrl+A` | Select all |
| `Shift+Arrow` | Extend selection in direction |
| `Ctrl+Shift+←/→` | Select word left/right |
| `Shift+Home/End` | Select to line start/end |
| `Ctrl+Shift+Home/End` | Select to document start/end |
| `Shift+PgUp/PgDn` | Select page up/down |

### Block Selection

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+Shift+↑/↓` | Block select up/down |
| `Alt+Shift+←/→` | Block select left/right |

## Basic Editing

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+C` | Copy |
| `Ctrl+X` | Cut |
| `Ctrl+V` | Paste |
| `Ctrl+Z` | Undo |
| `Ctrl+Y` | Redo |
| `Tab` | Indent |
| `Shift+Tab` | Dedent |
| `Ctrl+/` | Toggle comment |
| `Ctrl+T` | Transpose characters |

### Deletion

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Backspace` | Delete backward |
| `Del` | Delete forward |
| `Ctrl+Backspace` | Delete word backward |
| `Ctrl+Del` | Delete word forward |
| `Ctrl+K` | Delete to end of line |

### Case Conversion

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+U` | Convert to uppercase |
| `Alt+L` | Convert to lowercase |

## Search and Replace

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+F` | Search in buffer |
| `Ctrl+R` | Replace in buffer |
| `Ctrl+Alt+R` | Interactive replace (y/n/!/q for each match) |
| `F3` | Find next match |
| `Shift+F3` | Find previous match **TODO - use command palette**|
| `Alt+N` / `Ctrl+F3` | Find next occurrence of selection |
| `Alt+P` / `Ctrl+Shift+F3` | Find previous occurrence of selection **TODO - use command palette**|

See [Search and Replace](./search-replace.md) for more details.

## Macros

Record and replay sequences of keystrokes:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+Shift+0-9` | Toggle macro recording for slot 0-9 |
| `Ctrl+0-9` | Play macro from slot 0-9 **TODO - use command palette**|
| `F5` | Stop macro recording |

## Bookmarks

Jump quickly between locations in your code:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+Shift+0-9` | Set bookmark 0-9 |
| `Alt+0-9` | Jump to bookmark 0-9 |

## Shell Integration

Run shell commands on your buffer or selection:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+\|` | Run shell command on buffer/selection (output shown) |
| `Alt+Shift+\|` | Run shell command and replace selection with output |

## Navigation

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+Home` | Move to document start |
| `Ctrl+End` | Move to document end |
| `Ctrl+G` | Go to line number |
| `F8` | Jump to next error/diagnostic |
| `Shift+F8` | Jump to previous error/diagnostic |
| `Alt+←` | Navigate back in history |
| `Alt+→` | Navigate forward in history |

See [Navigation](./navigation.md) for more details.

Commit message:

docs: update macro shortcuts in editing.md
Add F4 (Play Last Macro) to the keyboard shortcut table, remove the
TODO note, and mention that macro commands are available via the
command palette.

https://claude.ai/code/session_011tWnzxT28dsaBBzoqPcFJ8

docs/features/editing.md, after:

# Editing

::: tip Platform Note
Some keybindings may not work or may differ on your system due to differences in keyboard layouts, terminal emulators, and operating systems. Terminals capture and report key events differently, and some key combinations may be intercepted by your OS or terminal before reaching Fresh. If a keybinding doesn't work, check the command palette (`Ctrl+P`) for alternative bindings, use the [keyboard configuration](../configuration/keyboard.md) to customize bindings, or browse all available shortcuts in the [Keybinding Editor](./keybinding-editor.md).
:::

## Multiple Cursors

Edit multiple locations simultaneously:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+D` | Add cursor at next occurrence of selection |
| `Ctrl+Alt+↑` | Add cursor above |
| `Ctrl+Alt+↓` | Add cursor below |
| `Esc` | Remove secondary cursors |

## Selection

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+W` | Select word under cursor |
| `Ctrl+L` | Select current line |
| `Ctrl+A` | Select all |
| `Shift+Arrow` | Extend selection in direction |
| `Ctrl+Shift+←/→` | Select word left/right |
| `Shift+Home/End` | Select to line start/end |
| `Ctrl+Shift+Home/End` | Select to document start/end |
| `Shift+PgUp/PgDn` | Select page up/down |

### Block Selection

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+Shift+↑/↓` | Block select up/down |
| `Alt+Shift+←/→` | Block select left/right |

## Basic Editing

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+C` | Copy |
| `Ctrl+X` | Cut |
| `Ctrl+V` | Paste |
| `Ctrl+Z` | Undo |
| `Ctrl+Y` | Redo |
| `Tab` | Indent |
| `Shift+Tab` | Dedent |
| `Ctrl+/` | Toggle comment |
| `Ctrl+T` | Transpose characters |

### Deletion

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Backspace` | Delete backward |
| `Del` | Delete forward |
| `Ctrl+Backspace` | Delete word backward |
| `Ctrl+Del` | Delete word forward |
| `Ctrl+K` | Delete to end of line |

### Case Conversion

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+U` | Convert to uppercase |
| `Alt+L` | Convert to lowercase |

## Search and Replace

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+F` | Search in buffer |
| `Ctrl+R` | Replace in buffer |
| `Ctrl+Alt+R` | Interactive replace (y/n/!/q for each match) |
| `F3` | Find next match |
| `Shift+F3` | Find previous match **TODO - use command palette**|
| `Alt+N` / `Ctrl+F3` | Find next occurrence of selection |
| `Alt+P` / `Ctrl+Shift+F3` | Find previous occurrence of selection **TODO - use command palette**|

See [Search and Replace](./search-replace.md) for more details.

## Macros

Record and replay sequences of keystrokes:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+Shift+0-9` | Toggle macro recording for slot 0-9 |
| `Ctrl+0-9` | Play macro from slot 0-9 |
| `F5` | Stop macro recording |
| `F4` | Play last recorded macro |

You can also use the command palette (`Ctrl+P`) to access **Record Macro**, **Play Macro**, **Play Last Macro**, and **List Macros** commands.

## Bookmarks

Jump quickly between locations in your code:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+Shift+0-9` | Set bookmark 0-9 |
| `Alt+0-9` | Jump to bookmark 0-9 |

## Shell Integration

Run shell commands on your buffer or selection:

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Alt+\|` | Run shell command on buffer/selection (output shown) |
| `Alt+Shift+\|` | Run shell command and replace selection with output |

## Navigation

| Shortcut | Action |
|----------|--------|
| `Ctrl+Home` | Move to document start |
| `Ctrl+End` | Move to document end |
| `Ctrl+G` | Go to line number |
| `F8` | Jump to next error/diagnostic |
| `Shift+F8` | Jump to previous error/diagnostic |
| `Alt+←` | Navigate back in history |
| `Alt+→` | Navigate forward in history |

See [Navigation](./navigation.md) for more details.
